what is HTML and what role does it play
on the web HTML which stands for
hypertext markup language is a markup
language for creating web pages when you
visit a website and see content like
paragraphs headings links images and
videos that's HTML HTML represents the
content and structure of a web page
through the use of elements here's an
example of a paragraph
element most elements will have an
opening tab and a closing tag sometimes
those tags are referred to as start and
end tags in between these two tags
you'll have the content this content can
be text or other HTML elements both
opening and closing tags start with a
left angle bracket and in with a right
angle bracket with the tag name placed
between these angle brackets here's a
closer look at just the opening and
closing paragraph tags what
distinguishes an opening tag from a
closing tag is the forward slash placed
immediately after the left angle bracket
in a closing tag some HTML elements do
not have a closing tag these are known
as void elements here's an example of an
image element which is a void element
notice that this image element does not
have the closing tag and it does not
have any content void elements cannot
have any content and only have a start
tag if you want to display an image
you'll need to include a couple of
attributes inside your image element an
attribute is a special value used to
adjust the behavior for an HTML element
here's an example of an image element
with a SRC or Source attribute the
source attribute is used to specify the
location for that image for image
elements it's good practice to include
another attribute called the alt
attribute here's an example of an image
element with the source and all
attributes the alt attribute is used to
provide short descriptive text for the
images in this case the descriptive text
is a cat sleeping in the grass so you
might be wondering if HTML by itself is
enough to build a website well the
answer is it depends if you're building
a small practice project that only
displays text and images HTML alone
might be sufficient however if you're
creating a modern professional website
you'll need to have HTML CSS and
JavaScript HTML is for the content and
structure CSS is for the styling and
JavaScript is for adding interactivity
to your web pages a good analogy for
this is to compare HTML CSS and
JavaScript with a complete building HTML
represents the blocks concrete and irons
that make up the walls it's the
foundation that makes the building
strong CSS represents the interior and
exterior design that makes the house
look beautiful JavaScript represents the
electrical and water system that ensures
uninterrupted access access to water and
electricity